UserSights:Developed a dashboard replicating the features of Tableau. Involved in Full stack development of the
application like Logging In/Out, Mail services, Mail Account verification mail. Sentiment analysis on health care
data.

ChatBot:Built the intelligence using AIML and Open.Ai online tool for query responses and exposed as an API.
Responsible for full stack development of the chat. Implemented IBM Watson and Microsoft Cognitive services for
cognitive aspect of a voice assisted bot. Demonstrated the bot in Wipro innovation centre of India and US.

Travel and Expense:Involved in requirement analysis, design and development. Integrated airline services like GoAir
and Indigo and performed integration testing and fixing bugs. Implemented the mail service using Open Rule Engine
and exposed APIs for the same. Implemented invoice document operations like generate, upload, download and
transfer files from one server to another server to streamline their business processes.


Inland fisheries refers to the harvesting, management,
and conservation of fishes generally in freshwater
bodies such as rivers, lakes, reservoirs, ponds etc.
• It is mainly done by two methods:-
○ Capture fisheries: Method of obtaining fish directly
from lakes, rivers or ponds with the help of fishing
gears or nets etc
○ Culture fisheries: Method of obtaining fish by
raising and harvesting them in controlled environments with tools of breeding or feed management etc.
• Types of Inland Fisheries:
o Tanks and Ponds- culture-based fishery is predominant and offers huge potential as India has 2.36 million
Hectares of Tanks & Ponds area)
o Brackish & Saline Aquaculture- mainly used in shrimp aquaculture and also to transform ‘Waste land to Wetlands’
o Cold Water Fisheries- Himalayan states offers an
unique opportunity for promotion of omega-packed
trouts
o Ornamental Fisheries- India having diverse (>195)
varieties of fishes, they can be reared and marketed
for their beauty and exotic characteristics
o Cage Culture in Reservoirs can help in promoting
culture-based fisheries in small and medium
reservoirs
o Riverine Fisheries- With numerous rivers, river
ranching can be used for conservation of indigenous
fisheries resources and restoration of natural
productivity
Benefits of inland fisheries
• Nutritional and Food Security: Rich in protein, omega-3
fatty acids, and Vitamin D, they act as cheap alternatives
and help in dietary diversity and nutritional requirements
• Economic benefits like Employment opportunities,
Development of rural infrastructure, Diverse supply
chain, exports of processed products increasing foreign
exchange earnings etc.
Environmental
○ Maintenance of Healthy ecosystems by controlling invasive species, supporting biodiversity.
○ Bioremediation helps in habitat restoration removal of excess nutrients from urban or agricultural runoff and
reduces the likelihood of toxic algal blooms.
○ Ecological balance is sustained as fishes being an important component of aquatic food webs benefit other
species as well.
• Social and cultural significance:
○ Traditional knowledge systems of the community and their strong cultural ties contribute to cultural heritage.
○ Recreational fishing also promotes physical and mental well-being.
Challenges associated with Indian Inland fisheries
• Production Challenges: Slow adoption of cutting-edge technologies such as innovative hatchery technologies, waterefficient
aquaculture practices etc.
o Limited extension services such as lack of standardised prices, shortage of soil and water testing facilities limits
scope of development of the sector.
• Economic Challenges: Like lack of timely credit, inadequate price discovery mechanism due to lack of efficient
electronic trading platform, post-harvest losses etc.
• Infrastructure Challenges: Like inadequate cold chain facilities, inadequate Post-Harvest Infrastructure, etc.
• Environmental Challenges
o Inadequate Mechanisation and use of traditional boats often results in Water pollution and improper
aquaculture management
o Sustainability issues due to rising demand for animal protein, fish stocks are often being fully exploited,
overfished, or severely depleted at various places.
Way Forward
• Adoption of emerging technologies such as big data, blockchain and IoT-based supply chain systems can help in
minimising losses, improving traceability etc.
• Multi Stakeholder approach in decision making process, from fishermen to boat owners and government
organisations.
• Adoption of FAO’s Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries for sustainable and responsible fish farming practices.
• Fish farmer producer organisations (FFPOs) can help in collectivisation of fish farmers and serve as an institutional
platform for delivery of products and services, market linkages etc.
○ FFPO is an association of fishers and their stakeholders organised with the primary objective of carrying out
sustainable fisheries value chain business activities and are registered under law.
• Infrastructure development such as food parks, cold storage units, chiller boxes, ice factories so as to improve the
logistical support as well as improve the shelf life of the product.

Infrastructure is such as food parks, cold storage units, chiller boxes, ice factories so as to decrease the
logistical data as well as decrease the shelf life of the product.

who are you???

This is the end of the File... Not yet...
chanch1001@gmail.com

The first prize goes to chanchal Sahu for 